## blind oobi

<h4>Definition</h4><p>A blind <a href="OOBI">OOBI</a> means that you have some mechanisms in place for verifying the <a href="AID">AID</a> instead of via the OOBI itself. A blind OOBI is essentially a <a href="URL">URL</a>. It&#39;s called &quot;blind&quot; because the witness is not in the OOBI itself. You haves other ways of verifying the AID supplied. </p><h4>Example</h4><p>A blind OOBI through an AID that is on some witness list and has been verified to root-of-trust already. So you know the human being behind this referred AID. Because it&#39;s an AID that has a <a href="KEL">KEL</a> out there, which has been securely established, you can trust it. So a blind OOBI makes a via-via commitment. </p><h4>The working</h4><p>A natural person that you trust is an owner of an AID. Then you cryptographically commit this AID to another AID through some mechanism (e.g. a witness list).</p><blockquote><p>&quot;Here&#39;s my public key and here&#39;s my AID and because this in an another witness list I trust it.&quot;</p></blockquote><h4>Unblind</h4><p>A &#39;blind&#39; AID becomes &quot;unblind&quot; when you establish a direct relationship with human being who controls the referenced AID. You shortcut the blind OOBI because you established a direct OOBI to the formerly reference AID.</p><h4>Why is a blind OOBI interesting</h4><p>type 2 authentication: minimise the friction| TBW prio 3 |</p><h4>Related terms</h4><p>Authentication by reference, latent authenticity</p>

