## integrity

<h4>Definition</h4><p>Integrity (of a message or data) means that the information is whole, sound, and unimpaired (not necessarily correct). It means nothing is missing from the information; it is complete and in intended good order. (Source: Neil Thomson)</p><h4>KERI suite criteria</h4><p>In KERI&#39;s &quot;security first&quot; approach Authenticity includes <em>technical integrity</em> of data involved. This includes:</p><ol><li><a href="internal-inconsistency">internal consistency</a></li><li>external consistency or <a href="duplicity">duplicity</a> evident</li></ol><p>Integrity in ACDCs is &quot;self-verifying&quot;: the <a href="self-addressing-identifier">SAID</a> that is contained in the data is also the of hash of the data.</p><p>The integrity of streaming data in <a href="composable-event-streaming-representation">CESR</a> and <a href="cesr-proof-signatures">CESR proof signatures</a> is established by code tables and verifiable by the mere (killer-)feature: round-robin <a href="composability">composability</a>. If you can toggle between the text - and binary representation, <em>then that&#39;s the integrity proof</em>, if not, then it&#39;s provably lacking integrity.</p><p>A side-benefit of how integrity is implemented in KERI is <a href="non-repudiable">non-repudiation</a> - done via a crypto-hash verification via the signer&#39;s public key - is not inherent in the meaning of integrity.</p><p>Furthermore for KERI integrity, as an assessment of the substance or the content itself, does not fall within its narrow definition. <strong>Our criterium is cryptographic verifiability</strong>. Once you can&#39;t verify, for KERI this type of non-technical integrity is not included in <code>integrity</code>. For the same reason we wouldn&#39;t use <a href="validate">validation</a>* as a mechanism to prove integrity.</p><h4>ToIP related</h4><p>On today&#39;s Technology Architecture TF call,..., we defined authenticity to include integrity.<br><a href="https://github.com/trustoverip/TechArch/issues/10">Source ToIP issue 10</a></p><p><a href="https://github.com/trustoverip/TechArch/issues/10">message integrity</a> seems to be included in <code>technical integrity</code>.</p><p>The further separation of Authenticity and Integrity in the ToIP glossary can be largely adopted by KERI? | TBW prio 2 |</p><h4>See also</h4><p><a href="verified-integrity">verified integrity</a><br><a href="complementary-integrity-verification">(complementary) integrity verification</a></p><p>*Validation in relation to integrity, in KERI&#39;s view would be an assessment of what&#39;s been verified before; in a certain context from a certain angle. And this mechanism is too close to <em>veracity judgement</em>, to be an objective verdict over integrity of data.</p>

