## self addressing identifier

<h4>Definition</h4><p>An identifier that is deterministically generated from and embedded in the content it identifies, making it and its data mutually tamper-evident.</p><h5>To generate a SAID</h5><ol><li>Fully populate the data that the SAID will identify, leaving a placeholder for the value of the SAID itself.</li><li>Canonicalize the data, if needed. The result is called the SAID&#39;s <strong>identifiable basis</strong>.</li><li>Hash the <em>identifiable basis</em>. The result is the value of the SAID.</li><li>Replace the placeholder in <em>identifiable basis</em> the with the newly generated identifier, so the SAID is embedded in the data it identifies. The result is called the <strong>saidified data.</strong></li></ol><h5>To verify that a SAID truly identifies a specific chunk of data</h5><ol><li>Canonicalize the data, if needed. The result is <strong>claimed saidified data</strong>.</li><li>In the <em>claimed saidified data</em>, replace the SAID value with a placeholder. The result is the <strong>identifiable basis</strong> for the SAID.</li><li>Hash the <em>identifiable basis</em>.</li><li>Compare the hash value to the SAID. If they are equal, then the SAID identifies the <em>claimed saidified data</em>.</li></ol><h5>Differences in SAID algorthms manifest in the following choices</h5><ul><li>how data is canonicalized</li><li>which hash algorithm is used</li><li>which placeholder is used</li><li>how the bytes produced by the hash algorithm are encoded</li><li>how the SAID value is formatted</li></ul><h5>Notation</h5><p>A terse way to describe a SAID and its data is to write an expression that consists of the token <code>SAID</code> followed by a token with field names in canonical order, where the field containing the SAID itsef is marked by the suffix <code>=said</code>. For example, the saidification of a simple <code>ContactInfo</code> data structure might be given as <code>SAID(name, address, phone, email, id=said)</code>.</p>

