## verifier

<h4>Definition</h4><p>the entity that (cryptographically) verifies data received from peers (check structure, signatures, dates). More narrowly defined for the KERI suite: cryptographically verifies signature(s) on an event message.</p><p>Notice the subtile difference between <a href="validator">validator</a> and verifier.</p><h4>KERI related</h4><p>Any entity or agent that cryptographically verifies the signature(s) and/or digests on an event message. In order to verify a signature, a verifier must first determine which set of keys are or were the controlling set for an identifier when an event was issued. In other words, a verifier must first establish control authority for an identifier. For identifiers that are declared as non-transferable at inception, this control establishment merely requires a copy of the inception event for the identifier. For identifiers that are declared transferable at inception, this control establishment requires a complete copy of the sequence of establishment events (inception and all rotations) for the identifier up to the time at which the statement was issued.<br>Source <a href="https://github.com/WebOfTrust/ietf-keri/blob/main/draft-ssmith-keri.md#basic-terminology">Sam Smith</a></p><h4>ESSIF-lab definitions</h4><ul><li><em><a href="https://essif-lab.github.io/framework/docs/essifLab-glossary#verify">verify</a></em> definition is in sync with the definition in the KERI/ACDC vocabulary</li><li><em><a href="https://essif-lab.github.io/framework/docs/essifLab-glossary#verifier">verifier</a></em> definition is in sync with the definition in the KERI/ACDC vocabulary</li><li><em><a href="https://essif-lab.github.io/framework/docs/essifLab-glossary#validate">validate</a></em> definition is very general, however in the KERI/ACDC vocabulary &#39;validate&#39; currently has diverse meanings including this one</li><li><em><a href="https://essif-lab.github.io/framework/docs/essifLab-glossary#validator">validator</a></em> definition is a generalisation of the much more specific definition in the KERI/ACDC vocabulary</li></ul>

