## Home

<h4>Welcome to the WebofTrust terms wiki!</h4><p>The wiki also serves the glossary terms for the underlying and related techniques to ACDC, like KERI, CESR and OOBI.</p><p>There are a few <a href="https://wiki.trustoverip.org/display/HOME/Terms+Wikis">practical rules</a> from the originator ToIP to get these wiki terms through their equivalent <a href="https://github.com/WebOfTrust/WOT-terms/actions/workflows/content-fetch-and-deploy-update-glossary.yml">github actions script</a>, please:</p><ol><li>beware all new wiki items you <strong>create</strong>, lead to new .md files. We&#39;d like to know</li><li>introduce lowercase names with spaces (they will convert into lower case names with dashes between the words)</li><li>start with <strong>## Definition</strong> header; <a href="https://github.com/WebOfTrust/WOT-terms/wiki/composable-event-streaming-representation">example</a></li><li>start with uppercase abbreviations with only the &quot;<strong>## See</strong>&quot; header; <a href="https://github.com/WebOfTrust/WOT-terms/wiki/CESR">example</a></li><li>don&#39;t <strong>delete</strong> items (i.e. .md files) but make clear they are depreciated and / or link to the new concept / term</li><li>don&#39;t change or <strong>update</strong> the name of an item single handed, for it might change the concept / meaning for other people and create dead links for those who <strong>read</strong> - or link to the term. Please open an issue or a PR to discuss first. </li><li>any other immediate updates and amendments welcome, the revisions are available for us to be able to (partially) revert if something unwanted or unexpected happens.</li></ol><h5>KERISSE reads this wiki</h5><p>The <em>weboftrust</em> wiki glossary is currently our input tool for our KERI Suite glossary. However, we regularly scrape the wiki into <a href="http://kerisse.org">KERISSE</a>, we add features and metadata, we connect relevant matching terms from related glossaries and finally we index it for the KERI Suite Search Engine (KERISSE).</p><p><em>Have fun CRU-ing!</em><br>&#39;* CRU=Create Read Update</p>

