## witness

<h4>Definition</h4><p>In KERI and ACDC context, a witness is an entity or component designated (trusted) by the controller of an identifier. The primary role of a witness is to verify, sign, and keep events associated with an identifier. A witness is the controller of its own self-referential identifier which may or may not be the same as the identifier to which it is a witness.  </p><p>An identifier witness therefore is part of its <a href="trust-domain">trust basis</a> and may be controlled (but not necessarily so) by its <a href="controller">controller</a>. The purpose of a pool of witnesses is to protect the controller from external exploit of its identifier.<br>The term <em><a href="backer">Backer</a></em> and <em>Witness</em> are closely related in KERI but not synonyms or interchangeable.</p><h4>KERI witness confusing</h4><p>Be sure to understand the narrow KERI definition of Witness well. You could easily be confused, for there are dozens of papers that use the term Witness in a similar way to KERI; for example <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8644609">https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8644609</a> or &#39;segregated witness&#39; in bitcoin, but it&#39;s far from the same concept.<br>More in the <a href="https://github.com/SmithSamuelM/Papers/blob/master/whitepapers/KERI_WP_2.x.web.pdf">whitepaper</a></p><h4>Operational description in KERI</h4><p>Entity that may receive, verify, and store key events for an identifier. Each witness controls its own identifier used to sign key event messages, a controller is a special case of a witness.<br>Source <a href="https://github.com/WebOfTrust/ietf-keri/blob/main/draft-ssmith-keri.md#basic-terminology">Sam Smith</a></p>

